And welcome to another episode of "No Such Thing as a Fish" a weekly podcast this week
coming to you live from Geneva. My name is Dan Schreiber I am sitting here with Anna
Chazinski, Andrew Hunter Murray and James Harkin and once again we have gathered around the
microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in no particular order
here we go starting with you Anna. My fact this week is that jobs that have recently
been added to the US census include dose scaler, automotive window tinter and blimp pilot.
These are the jobs of the modern world apparently. What is a pilot? Well we'll come onto that blimp
the back in baby. What is a dose scaler? Yeah it's a really good question it's something
to do with baking. Now I understand thank you. The US has a census every every ten years
like a lot of places and then every year they do the American community survey where
they still interview lots of people and the way they find out about the jobs people
have got is they just ask describe what you do you know what your roles in in tail and
then if enough people describe a similar thing that doesn't yet fit into a category they
add that category and enough people to describe the work that goes into scaling dough.
It's amazing. To make dose scaler a new job. There are a lot out there there are a lot
of these jobs as an entire spreadsheet which I've read through well I've read through the
start of it. The first in the list is Abeloni Fisherman. It's on the alphabetical order.
You can be an abrasive grinder. I know I am. You have an abrasive grinder profile.
There is alcoholic counsellor which sounds like it's the counsellor who's an alcoholic.
Yeah. Oh I'm your local counsellor I just want to count on your vote.
There is some people in America who describe themselves as an animal killer and also an
animal avisorator. Wow. I know. And just let me do this. This is all things from the
B category. So baby nurse. I'm not sure if that's a baby who's a nurse or a bull holder.
Bull holder. Bull shagger. Bull point pen cartridge tester. Banana expert. Bean snapper.
Bean robber. Beef killer. Belly builder. Biscuit wear. Bladder blower. Bone puller. Bone worker.
Boring machine operator. Bottom cementer. Bottom filler. Bottom sprayer. I'm breast worker.
Breast worker. That old genuine thing that you can do. Do you say beef killer? Beef killer.
Is that for people who are still not sure if they're cow's dead and they just really want
to really make sure. I think that's what they've been in it for, you know, some time presumably.
They're old so they have the latest one up there so I don't know if they're new. I don't
know when they came in. It's a weird thing because these are the census jobs. It's sort
of there's a lot of I guess humor as well in it where people just write a fake job down
and those have been collected over the years. So these are obviously all real but I was reading.
It goes back to the 1881 census from the British in Britain. Sorry. They have great ones
that are on there and this was tweeted by someone called Jordan Erica Weber. She found these.
So on the census in 1881 there was artificial skon maker. Body washer. Body is in your bum bum.
It's got me the medical mumbo jumbo down. Examiner of underclothing ferret weaver fish
bender, grape dryer, turnip shepherd and 52 years in imbecile. I wrote this list too because
some people just put their sort of status in life as opposed to their job. So one person
wrote fatuous pauper. Another one wrote very feeble. One person, this intrigues me, wrote
drowning. I want to know about the circumstances under which then the answer to the next question
was I assume when I saw that it was for rabid animals maybe. You have to drown an animal
that's going to kill people. Why do you have to drown it? How are you going to kill a rabid
kitten? Why have you turned this back on me? Why are you going to drown it? Sorry, I'll
give my rabid kitten to you next time I have one. I'm actually only qualified as a beef
killer. They're always doing weird stuff in the olden days with animals like contorting
them into weird shapes. Did you mention fish bender? Is that before they invented balloons
and they just had to do it with the real thing. Children's birthday parties were so traumatic.
They were poodle but it was a cat before. They had a cow banger. Don't you mention that cow
banger and then the fish bender which you mentioned. What is a cow banger an abattoir person?
I assume it must be and maybe there were more flu between what beef men in that you can
kill it and bang cows. When the census happens in the USA, there are 600,000 people working
on it which means that the act of taking the census alters the unemployment rate by 0.2%.
So when they're going through is it just like census taker, census taker. There's a weird
thing that happens with the American census which is on the, I think it's done on April
the 1st, weirdly. So it must encourage a lot of people to write bizarre things. Except for
one place which is Alaska where it happens on the 25th of January and the reason for that
is because by the time April the 5th comes around it's too cold there so everyone's gone.
They've just gone to warmer places and no one's there to do the census.
Mate, why do you think it's getting colder as the year goes on?
Sorry. Do you think it's colder in April in Alaska that it is in January?
The reason is...
Hang on, we'll spend December in January in Alaska when it's lovely.
But then we'll get out of there for April.
35 years at Inbecile.
Sorry, I come from Australia. Our seasons are different there.
Yeah, yeah. I've actually quite a good excuse.
I've been there for 16 years. It's a terrible excuse.
I think it's because it gets a bit warmer there and when it gets warmer in Alaska, then the
people who live there go and do things like fishing, they're in communities that go fishing
and hunting so when you go round to take, look, join my notes.
When they go round to take the census no one's home. I think that's partly silly with
it, right?
That's not so sure.
People used to prank the census. This was really exciting in 1911 in the UK.
It was the first time that people got to actually hand right their own responses.
So that's quite cool for a number of reasons because it means you find very famous people
in there, Winston Churchill is in there, just listing what he does.
But there's also, for example, a man who, it was only the head of the household who wrote
the responses. One man listed one of the occupants of his house as Peter Tabby, whose occupation
is Mouser and his nationality is Persian and the census representative has crossed out
this line. You can see the cross-out line and Britain beneath it, this is a cat.
We have to round it now.
We're going to have to move on in a second, guys.
Oh, can I just say some things that other things that have been written on censuses is.
So the people who are taking them, right, interesting stuff, in the 19th century, in America, in the
19th century in the UK, this was, the censors take up a go round and often they'd ask
the questions and then write down the answers themselves and it was about taking a census
of everyone in the household. But sometimes you had a homeless person who was camping
out in a barn or things like that. So, for instance, in one census, someone was recorded
on the census, but he just wrote next to him drinking, slept in shed, unclear whether he
was a member of the household. Another one was recorded as at home, but dead.
Would you want someone to clarify? If you go, "Oh, it's James in," you want someone to
clarify. I was like, "Yes, but he is dead." There was one really snooty one in Hampshire,
in the Hampshire Parish Record, actually, that someone found online and it was recording
the existence of the baptised bastard child of Mary Brown, gotten of John Smith, brackets,
so she say it, close brackets.
Well, because it was often vickers who recorded it and they were very judgmental. So the very
reverend Dr. Peter Scrimshire would go to go around doing all of his parishes and responses,
and so he found an unmarried mother and he just described her occupation as "man-trap."
Okay, it is time for fact number two, and that is my fact. My fact this week is, heavy metal
musician Tony Iomi began playing heavy metal guitar with two metal fingers because he
lost his real ones while working at a metal factory. This is Tony Iomi from the band "Black
Sabbath." I got this fact, I just have to say, it's one of the best books I've read in
a long time. It's called "History of Heavy Metal" by a friend of ours, Andrew O'Neal, who's
a comedian, but he's written a proper history of heavy metal as just brilliant, packed with
facts, lots of funny jokes. The opening line is one of my favourite opening lines to a book.
He says, "This is the opening line. There are two types of people in the world. People
who like heavy metal and dicks." So Tony Iomi, he was working in a metal factory and he was
asked to do a job that he would never done before and he was meant to quit that very day and
he, in fact, stayed at home and his mum made him go in to do the job. He was working and
suddenly, when operating machine, the two tips of his second and third finger were chopped
off. The bone was still there. He went to the hospital and they said, "We're going
to have to saw the bones off." And he was very depressed and a friend of his brought in a record
of a guy called Django Reinhardt, very famous guitarist who could only play with two fingers
on his guitar because the rest were paralyzed and he thought, "Okay, I can do this." So he
started experimenting with ways that he could make tips for his fingers so that he could
start playing again. And the first iteration of that was metal. He used metal to make that.
Then he moved on to soldering a cap from a soap bottle down, attaching some leather around
it and using that. And what's extraordinary about this is what it's saying is that Tony
Iomi is credited with inventing heavy metal. Black Sabbath is said to be the first heavy metal
album and it was because of the situation that he couldn't play with regular strings. So
he had to buy banjo strings for his guitar. He lowered them down and by lowering down the
notes, he started playing the first metal riffs and that's why we have heavy metal because
he lost two fingers in the metal factory. That is unbelievable.
It's almost like he set it up. It's too perfect. I think he did it just to get his
mum back before he seemed to go to work. The only thing I know about Tony Iomi is that he
was pretty nuts. I think like Black Sabbath did behave in a gratifyingly crazy way back
in the day, like you think they did, but he once exploded Richard Branson's prize cup.
They went to say Richard Branson's house, Black Sabbath, and he decided to launch some
fireworks into his let into Branson's lake, where there were his prize cup, which do cost
many thousands of pounds and he exploded them all.
Occupation, cup detonator.
Do you know that heavy metal has a birthday? Oh, stop it. No it does. I mean, what is it? Because
Black Sabbath's first album was seen as the very first heavy metal album and it was released
on Friday the 13th in February 1970. That's the birthday of heavy metal. Yeah, surely deliberate.
Metal probably has more subgenres than any other kind of music I reckon. There's a big
list on Wikipedia. They have national socialist black metal on the far right and red and anarchist
black metal on the far left. They have Viking metal, war metal, unblack metal, sludge metal,
pirate metal, space metal, grind core, death core, core grind, death grind, porno grind,
math core. Math core. No, math core. Math core. Just maths. Very loud, shouting maths. They have,
speaking of school subjects, they have Latin metal, but unfortunately it's about Latin American
music, not all in Latin. So they have geography metal?
Wow. But I wonder if it's like the people's front of Judea and the Judea's people's front.
Do you think they all hate each other? All the metal. Because they sound pissed off about
something. From the book, the, the, the, the suggestion that yeah, the split groups are,
they don't think there is, you know, hardcore as each other. Yeah. So that's it. Like glam
metal, motley crew and all that sort of famously wearing lycra and stuff like that. Oh, glam.
Yes, sorry, I thought it was a gland metal. That's another, it's so genre. Well, they had, in the
Simpsons once, there was a Simpsons episode where they quoted a Judea's priest song and they
referred to it as death metal and they got so many furious letters from metal fans saying
Judea's priest is not death metal. That in the next episode of The Simpsons, the message
that brought up on the board, what, you know, he writes on the blackboard, the message was
Judea's priest is not death metal. Wow. Some people who are, some things that do like death metal
is sharks. Yeah. Um, the tips. Well, let's face it. There was a team from the Discovery Channel
in 2015 who wanted to attract a large female great whites called Joan of Shark. Do, do, do,
do. And they put this speaker in the water and played a load of death metal and it didn't
attract Joan, but it attract a load of other sharks. So it does seem like they like the vibrations
of death metal in particular. Oh, very good. Oh, I have a, I have a fact about, it's, it's
related and you'll see why, but it's about Mozart. It's not about metal. But it's about, I was
looking at musicians who've overcome impairments basically. Okay. So Mozart started going deaf
at the age of 26, which is a huge problem, obviously, but it's, sorry, Beethoven? Yes, it
is. Yeah. Great. Should we begin again? So Beethoven started going deaf at, no, stop it.
No. Come on. How's that going to sound? What am I going to say? Beethoven started going
deaf at the age of 26 and it started with Timotus and there are lots of theories as to why he
had the Timotus. So the theories as to why include that he may have had lead poisoning or
syphilis or typhus or that it was due to his habit of immersing his head in cold water to keep
himself awake. Wow. Yeah. Wait, and that's so the relationship to the previous fact is the
sharks are also immersed in cold water. Correct. Got it. I couldn't tell you that at the beginning
because it was the end of this phase. Spoiler. Yeah. Spoiler that. Brilliant fact about
Mozart or Beethoven or whoever it was. We need to move on to something like that. I've got some
stuff about people who've lost fingers. Okay. Yeah. So one group of people who've lost a lot of
fingers is cavemen and women. So cavepersons. So do you mean historical ones? I do. I don't mean
people who live in caves today. I mean, how on earth do we know this? The main physical
impression that we have of people who live particularly in caves is handprints that were
left in lots of caves in France and in a few other countries. So there's the gargous cave in France
which has 231 handprints left by the people who live there. Of those, 114 are missing at least one
finger. And there are other caves where it's also 50/50. The handprints that are there are missing
at least. And we think they were all working in metal factories too. Yeah. It was the bronze age.
There was a lot of it going on. There's lots of theories. So one is that it was a punishment or
one is that it was a kind of ritual thing. Some people think it was frostbite and some people
think they were just folding down their fingers. They were doing in the metal sign. Well, the ancient
Greeks used to cut off dead people's fingers. So this was they were paranoid that people weren't
actually dead and they cremated them or buried them when they were still alive. And so to check,
they cut off a finger. The reasoning being that if you weren't dead then you'd say something.
Wow. Well, we know he's at home but we're not sure if he's dead or not. You know, if you do the
peace sign with your two fingers, if you do that and you're photographed from within nine feet
on a smartphone, your fingerprints can be stolen, reconstructed, printed out and used to access
your stuff. No. Yeah. Wow. I know. We should say that, I don't know if they gave us permission
to say this, but I'm sure they did. When we were at Sir and earlier, we were talking about the idea
that you get your eyeballs scanned and checked to give you entry to places. I think it came up in
angels and demons and downbrowns at it. And so apparently they tested it out. Some scientists tested
that out to see if that does work and it turns out it doesn't. So if anyone was going to murder somebody
to get their eyeball to let them into a building, it doesn't work at my point. Yeah. If it's not used
any of Dan Brown's works as a way to live your life. Okay, it is time for fact number three and that is
James. Okay, my fact this week is that in 19th century Romania, there were people who sold shadows
and they would sell your shadow without your permission. So then you would die less than one year later.
According to superstition. So in Southeast Europe, they used to have this tradition where you could
use your shadow as a sacrifice when making a new building. Okay, so basically you would stand there
in the sun and then they would put where your shadow is and they would put the first block there
and then they would build the rest of the house and supposedly it would stop the house from falling
down. But like I say, unfortunately it would mean that the person who shadow it was would die within a
year according to superstition. So people didn't really want to do that and so what they would do is they
would sneakily entice people to stand over next to a building site and say, oh, just stand over that
and they're like, you're not going to stop building the house here, are you? No, no, no, no. And then they
would do it and then they would die within a year according to superstition. And then people kind
of got wise to that and you had shadow traders who would kind of stand next to you in the street and
they'd see your shadow and then they'd sneakily measure it and then they'd give the measurements to
a builder and that supposedly counted that if they put the measurements in their foundations and
that would work as well. And so did these people go home and then suddenly look down at the floor and
say, oh my god, I've got no shadow. No, unfortunately the laws of physics stayed the same.
They always, they mostly do. One of these are the same guys who are in.
Do you know what the precursor to this was though? This tradition. This was actually a more humane
version of what came before it apparently, which was that the idea was that you had to ward ghosts
and terrible spirits away from this new house. So what they used to do was either crush someone under
the foundation stone of a house or put a living person into like in between the walls of the house
so that they would die there and their spirit could haunt it and scare away other spirits now.
I can see where the dying within a year bit comes out. Yeah. Not according to superstition at all.
That's just... You wouldn't want to buy a new build house in 19th century Romania, would you?
Was that someone at the door? No, that's just the guy in the wall who's still dying.
You know whenever, whenever any man goes to look at a new house, all they do is kind of knock on the
walls, don't they? And no one has any idea why they're doing it. It's a ritual as old as you're
just finding the guy. Yeah. So I was looking a bit at shadows. Oh yeah. And I was looking at shadow
puppets. Okay. So most shadow puppet shapes were invented by the same man. Really? This is amazing.
So he was called Felicia Truey and the art was called Chinese shadows or Ormbrushing was.
And he popularized it basically and he wrote a book saying I can do everything. I can do the elephant,
the bird, the cat. And there were a lot of people as well. There was the volunteer, the fisherman,
the preacher, the jockey, the rope dancer. He didn't entire play, which was just him doing hand
shadows. Yeah. And this was, it was really, really popular in the 19th century. And he had one other
trick as well. His other art was Chapagraphy. Chapagraphy. Can you guess what that is?
Hey, writing? It's hats. He would get a single piece of felt. Okay, single normal piece of felt.
He would fold it into different shapes repeatedly to make different kinds of hat.
And this was really huge. This was the most exciting thing.
And sorry, this was before the internet was it? There is actually, there's footage of very late,
like a 19th century Chapagraphy happening. It doesn't call actually. It doesn't, and he, you know,
he takes it off or it's a later practitioner takes it off. He could do 35 differently shaped hats
with a single piece of felt. And when he puts on everyone, he does a little face to say, look,
this is the nun, or this is the fisherman, or this is the other person. But it was not bad.
Again, it's just the precursor to the balloon contorter, isn't it?
Yeah. Children's birthday parties have always been the same.
Yeah, right. Shadow puppetry, there's the reason they called it Chinese Shadow puppetry.
I mean, it is because China did it for 2,000 years before this guy started. But they didn't,
but they, but they used them, actually, they didn't use their hands because they made wooden puppets
in the cast their shadows. Yes, it's the plagiarist.
Oh, here comes the lawyer.
Chinese, so in China, there's evidence of it happening since the 2nd century BC.
And the legend always went in China that the reason it was invented was because there was an emperor,
the emperor Wu D, and his favorite concubine died, and he was really devastated.
And so one of his mystic assistants started Shadow puppetry in order to convince him that his
concubine had come back from the dead. So he just made the figure of his concubine and cast her shadow
on the wall and was like, look, she's just over there in the room. And apparently that made
she had him up no end. And it caught on. I don't know if he fully believed that she'd come back.
He could never quite have a conversation with her again. But it caught on and then it was brought
to you by Genghis Khan, or by Genghis Khan and the Mongols of marauding armies. That wasn't the
main aim though, was it? Spread the shadow puppetry. That's why they did it. He's always painted
in a bad light. He was just trying to spread the arts and culture. This one is the invading Horde,
who will burn your village. The invading Mongol armies traveled with a horde of shadow puppeteers
to keep them entertained. They did not. They did. They had shadow puppeteers in their troop. Wow.
You were even the Mongols had an off day. Wait, do you mean a day off when they'd enjoy the shadow
puppetry? I mean a day off, not bad day. Do you know they've invented building skyscrapers that
don't have shadows? Wow. This is really cool. Using computers, they've done this. You need two of
them. You have these two big buildings and then the light comes on and they reflect off like a mirror,
but then one reflects on to the other and the other reflects on to that one. Basically the light
just very slowly goes to the floor and there's no shadow at all. It only works if they're exactly
on the Greenwich Meridian in London. So you have to build them exactly there in the centre where
they're already as a museum. Yeah. But in theory it works. Does it have a use? That's the question.
The shadowless building. So the idea is like if you were to build it, you could put it anywhere
and slightly change the metrics and you could build it in a different place. These ones
only work in Greenwich but other ones can work anywhere. And let's say you want to build a massive
building near Central Park, for instance, in New York, but you don't want to have a massive shadow
over the park because people want to sunbathe. You can put these things there and then they won't be
getting in people's way. And the other thing is there's a lot of buildings that are now being built
at a solar powered. And so if you've got a solar powered building or a house or a farm and
suddenly a big building is just knocking out the sun, you can't operate. So there's new laws
that are being put in place to say that you can't have a shadow come over you if you're. Wow.
Yeah. Because they do, they have a tax on shadows in Italy in some places already which I thought
was absurd but it's sounding more sensible. But this is small business owners in mainly in a place
called Konegliano in Italy have to pay local tax on the shadows that their buildings cast.
And it's like a hundred years per annum and they didn't really know they were paying it until recently
and they went what the fuck? I'm paying for my shadow. And the idea is that if you're building
a castle shadow on someone else's land then you are occupying that person's land. And so you have
to pay a tax on that. That's really interesting. Yeah. You can get a shadow boyfriend in Japan. That's good.
This is kind of like the Chinese emperor thing actually. So it's a device that was allegedly
at the prototype stage last year although I don't think it's made it very much further than that.
But it projects the shadow of a man onto your curtains. It's basically what Kevin does in
home alone. If you remember that he pretends he's hosting a party. Yeah. So is that a boyfriend or a
burglar? No, it's the burglar season and he sees oh well there's a big strong man there
so I won't try and burglar that home. And you can choose the activities. There are as a range
of activities you can get them to do. So wait lifting, playing guitar, boxing, just swinging a
baseball bat around. It feels like overkill. And there are more realistic ones where they're just
sitting at a computer for ages. But if he's on the other side of the curtain, which is right against
the window, right? No, no. So you're looking at the building from outside. And as the homeowner,
you project the shadow onto the closed blinds of the closed curtain. So someone looking from the
outside thinks they see a bodybuilder. Yeah. What's your beef? Well, who hangs out in front of a
curtain by their window or a blind? Exactly. So you'd probably think the house was being
burgled and reported. Oh wait, lots of people hang out. Burglers don't break it and just start
doing some weightlifting. Not the weightlifting one, but it would be great if you could get a shadow
thing to project the image of someone robbing your home. Because then the burglar will see it and
think oh, the someone's already got that. Yes. Okay, we need to move on to our final fact of the show
and that is Andy. My fact is that some aphids fix their homes by exploding themselves and plastering
their own bodies over the holes in the walls. So this is a species called Nippon aphist monzani.
And this is a scientific study by someone called Takema Fukatsu. And they live in very big lumps on
trees, these aphids called ghouls. And sometimes these are invaded by caterpillars. And these young aphids
are called nymphs. Technically they're dispatched to assassinate it to stab it to death. And as those
guys get fighting, other little aphids soldiers rush there and their job is to explode. They're just
full of fluid and they get there and then there are these two holes near their bottom and they just
explode these globules of goo all over the place. And some of them get stuck in the glue as it
hardens around them. So they're trying to mend the hole in the wall and fix the breach. And others
release so much fluid. They shrink to a third of their original size and then they're just these
little shrunken balloon aphids who can't do anything. And they die. That's a sad ending to that story
actually. It's a sort of heroic sacrifice I guess. Oh yeah, yeah. Look at it like that. It's really
amazing though, isn't it? And they think that the way it might have evolved is that originally these
fluids would be helped if you just they just had like a cut on their elbow or something like that.
It was almost like a scabbing thing like a human word, but then it's kind of got more and more and more
and more so that now it's learned to scab over a plant rather than just the aphid itself.
This is amazing, isn't it? Some of them seem to go outside the home and so some of them do the
exploding and then some of them just secrete the gluey stuff and paste it on. But a lot of them do it
from outside. So then they paste themselves outside their own home. That's tragic. And then they can
never get back in. Can't get back in. They're bugged. Yeah. That's the real idiot kind of construction
worker, isn't it? What have I done? They also do this exploding against predators, some of them. So
cabbage aphids, they get chemicals from cabbages and they can mix certain chemicals and if a lady bird
or something tries to eat them, they can explode and it's like almost like a mustard gas that goes into
the lady bird's eyes and then it runs away and they can, well, they are dead. Oh, they die in the
thing. Yeah, but they've saved their mates. That's the important thing. That's so cool. So they've got
these two chemicals in different bits of their body and when they're attacked, they combine them.
Yeah, that's right. And that's like in die hard three. That's the bomb in die hard three.
That's the structure of the bomb in die hard three. That's amazing. They're incredible.
Aphids. Can we talk about die hard three? Sorry. Sorry. Yeah, yeah. No, but they are extraordinary,
aren't they? I was reading this thing about them, which is so they'll all exist on a plant, a colony
of them will exist on a plant, but they don't have wings. So they all hang out there and a lot of them
do have wings. Well, no, so yeah, but this is, yeah, so let's say with the species that don't have it,
they'll be on this plant and they'll suck it dry or it'll get too overcrowded and they need to move
on. So when that happens, they produce a generation of the same species with wings to fly away and then
they land on another plant and then they lose the wings again and just hang out there. They can just,
they can just suddenly have a generation of winged aphids of their species. That's really good. They
have weird reproduction because they sort of alternate between sexually reproducing and then the
women going, we can't be bothered to use men and then a sexually reproducing, which mostly they,
they do the laughter. Don't they? Yeah. But when they're on plants, sometimes they'll be a whole bunch
of aphids on a plant feeding on it and then they see a deer or something coming towards the
plant and it's going to eat it so they all need to throw themselves off like a mass leap and then
they get to the floor and the little ones piggyback on the bigger ones to escape. So you see the little
aphids climbing onto the older aphids back and this is when it becomes more individualistic because
a scientist who've watched this say the old ones are there trying to scrape them off as they're trying
to escape. Go off me, but they do do it. That's amazing and you were saying how they can kind of reproduce
without males, the females, they could do that up to 41 generations without having any sexual
act with a male. But it does mean that if you had one aphid, one female aphid in a room and no aphids
died, then there would be more than 1.5 billion, billion, billion aphids at the end of the season,
which means that the earth could be covered in a layer of aphids 149 kilometers deep within a year.
Wow, so they're just all most of them are dying. Well, that's why that's why ladybirds are so great.
That's amazing. Is it true that they, sorry Andy, is it true that they are basically born pregnant?
I kept reading this thing. That's extraordinary and then they give birth to offspring which
already have embryos. Which are really like Russian dolls. They're just like there's a tinier aphid.
Three times over. And then they just lift that upper torso off and out comes the smaller version.
So the thing they really like is sap. They love sap. They also get called sap suckers. That's so much
they like sap. And they excrete this thing as they feed which is called honeydew. And they have to eat
so much plant sap because they need various nutrients and they can only get those nutrients in the
quantities they need by ingesting a huge amount of sap. So the giant willow aphid produces four
times its own body weight in sugar every day that it's excreting. So that's the equivalent of a human
leaving behind a couple of bathtubs of water every day with 300 bags of sugar inside. That's what
they're doing each day. And also other animals love this honeydew which is their aphid excrement.
So sometimes if bees can't get nectar they will just lick up aphid poo instead because it's
very high in sugar. It's fine. It is fine. It's just it's fine but it's not quite as good as nectar is it?
It's not quite as good but it does still I mean if honey honey can be made of plant sap but it if
that's been filtered through an aphid's bum and then formatted up by a bee. But the reason that
their sugary excretions are most important is because of this amazing relationship they have with
ants right that you can't talk about aphids without talking about ants because the ants love their
honeydew which is such a weird euphemism for poo. But so they they have this really symbiotic
relationship with ants and it's hard to know who's winning and who's losing in that relationship
and so sometimes ants will bite off aphids' wings so they can't fly away but they can't kill them
because they need to keep on licking their this honey stuff and so that means they defend them so
when other attackers come and they want to eat their aphids then the ants will fight them off because
they'll stop anyone killing them. This is really cool ant actually which is we think is the first
meat farmer aside from humans. So it's an ant that farms aphids but for their meat because these
aphids that don't actually produce this sweet stuff and so it's called the melissa tossus and it's
about three millimeters long and basically they keep all these aphids together inside the bark of trees
and they sort of farm them and they gradually eat them but what's quite quite cool about these
ants is they've obviously got six legs but one of their pairs of legs their middle pair points
up not down because they what uses that oh I guess if you fall on your back you can turn yourself
over again. No it's because they're always burrowing through tunnels in trees and so it helps them
get there to two feet on the roof while they've got four feet on the ground. That's amazing. It's cool
right and also so we don't we're not totally sure they eat the aphids because they really hate being
spied on they're very private like a lot of us and so we've seen that they keep the aphids sort of
farmed inside the tree but whenever scientists drill holes in the tree the ants immediately block
them up again so we haven't been able to watch yet. That's amazing we have to wrap up in a second.
Some aphids defend themselves by having sex with other aphids and getting STDs and they actively seek out
STDs because they give them superpowers. What superpowers do they get? Well it's a very specific superpower
wasps like to lay eggs inside aphids and this is a big problem obviously because no one likes to have
an egg laid inside them by a wasp. So but the good news is that there are particular STI bacteria
which destroy developing wasp grubs in your body so the only way for a female to protect herself
is to seek out a male with a sexually transmitted infection. Well how does she know? It's on
this Tinder profile or something. I don't I don't know how the female knows that the male has it.
So she's been parasitically implanted. I think it's before that. She might be like a prophylactic kind
of mess. It's like a condom rather than the morning after pills. Yes. Yeah it's except the condom is
getting an STD. Do you know that due to aphids or aphids had a real thing with wine in the 1900s,
early 1900s and they really started attacking all the wine in the world. They were eating all of the
roots and it meant that the French wine industry almost went out of business and actually all of
Europe did and what they found is that the aphids loved the roots of French vines and other European
vines but they really hated American vines. And so these days almost all French wine even though
it's French grapes they're grafted onto American roots. And so actually most French wine is actually half
American. Wow. We're gonna get letters. Glad we didn't do this back to our Paris bit of the talk.
Okay that is it. That is all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening. If you would like to get
in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast we can
be found on our Twitter accounts. I'm on @StreiberlandAndy. @AndyHunterM. James. James Harkin. And Shazinski.
You can email podcast@ky.com. Yep or you can go to our group account which is @nosuchthing or a website.
Nosuchthing is a fish.com. Thank you so much Danny but that was great fun. We'll see you again. Good night!
[Applause]
[BLANK_AUDIO]